3.2.1 Benefits of Early and Frequent Stakeholder Feedback

Early and frequent feedback allows for the early communication of potential quality problems. If there is little stakeholder involvement during the SDLC, the product being develped might not meet the stakeholder's original or current vision. A failure to deliver what the stakeholder wants can result in costly reqork, missed deadlines, blame games, and might even lead to complete project failure.
Frequent stakeholder feedback throughout the SDLC can prevent misunderstandings about requirements and ensure that changes to requirements are understood and implemented earlier. This helps the development team to improve their understanding of what they are building. It allows them to focus on those features that deliver the most value to the stakeholders and that have the most positive impact on identified risks.

3.2.2 Review Process Activities
The ISO/IEC 20246 standard defines a generic review process that provides a structured but flexible framework from which aspecific review process may be tailored to a particular situation. If the required freview is more formale, then more of the tasks described for the different activities will be needed.

The size of many work products makes them too large to be covered by a single review. The review process may be invoked a couple of times to complete the review for the entire work product.
The activies in the review process are:
Planning. During the planning phase, the scope of the review, which comprises the purpose, the work product to be reviewed, quality characteristics to be evaluated, areas to focus on, exit criteria, supporting information such as standards,  effort and the timeframes for the review, shall be defined.
Review initation. During review initiation, the goal is to make sure that everyone and everything involved is prepared to start the review. This includes making sure that every participant has access to the work product under review, understands their role and responsibilities and receives everything needed to perform the review.
Individual review. Every reviewer performs an individual review to assess the quality of the wwork product under review, and to identify anomalies, recommendations, and questions by  applying one or more review techniques (e.g. checklist-based reviewing, scenario-based reviewing). The ISO/IEC 20246 standard provides more depth on different review techniques. The reviewers log all their identified anomalies, recommendations, and questions.
Communication and analysis. Since the anomalies identified during a review are not necessarily defects, all these anomalies need to be analyzed and discussed. For every anomaly, the decision should be made on its status, ownership and required actions. This is typically done in a review meeting, during which the participants also decide what the quality of reviewed work product is and what follow-up actions are required. A follow-up review may be required to complete actions.
Fixing and reporting. For every defect, a defect report should be created so that corrective actions can be followed-up. Once the exit criteria are achieved, the work product can be accepted. The review results are reported.